   Job control
     Job control refers to the shell's ability to monitor and control jobs,
     which are processes or groups of processes created for commands or
     pipelines.	 At a minimum, the shell keeps track of the status of the
     background (i.e. asynchronous) jobs that currently exist; this
     information can be displayed using the jobs commands.  If job control is
     fully enabled (using set -m or set -o monitor), as it is for interactive
     shells, the processes of a job are placed in their own process group.
     Foreground jobs can be stopped by typing the suspend character from the
     terminal (normally ^Z), jobs can be restarted in either the foreground or
     background using the fg and bg commands, and the state of the terminal is
     saved or restored when a foreground job is stopped or restarted,
     respectively.

     Note that only commands that create processes (e.g. asynchronous
     commands, subshell commands, and non-built-in, non-function commands) can
     be stopped; commands like read cannot be.

     When a job is created, it is assigned a job number.  For interactive
     shells, this number is printed inside [..], followed by the process IDs
     of the processes in the job when an asynchronous command is run.  A job
     may be referred to in the bg, fg, jobs, kill, and wait commands either by
     the process ID of the last process in the command pipeline (as stored in
     the $! parameter) or by prefixing the job number with a percent sign
     (%).  Other percent sequences can also be used to refer to jobs:

     %+ | %% | %    The most recently stopped job or, if there are no stopped
		    jobs, the oldest running job.

     %-		    The job that would be the %+ job if the latter did not
		    exist.

     %n		    The job with job number n.

     %?string	    The job with its command containing the string string (an
		    error occurs if multiple jobs are matched).

     %string	    The job with its command starting with the string string
		    (an error occurs if multiple jobs are matched).

     When a job changes state (e.g. a background job finishes or foreground
     job is stopped), the shell prints the following status information:

	   [number] flag status command

     where...

     number   is the job number of the job;

     flag     is the + or - character if the job is the %+ or %- job,
	      respectively, or space if it is neither;

     status   indicates the current state of the job and can be:

	      Done [number]
			 The job exited.  number is the exit status of the
			 job, which is omitted if the status is zero.

	      Running	 The job has neither stopped nor exited (note that
			 running does not necessarily mean consuming CPU time
			 - the process could be blocked waiting for some
			 event).

	      Stopped [signal]
			 The job was stopped by the indicated signal (if no
			 signal is given, the job was stopped by SIGTSTP).

	      signal-description [core dumped]
			 The job was killed by a signal (e.g. memory fault,
			 hangup); use kill -l for a list of signal
			 descriptions.	The core dumped message indicates
			 the process created a core file.

     command  is the command that created the process.	If there are multiple
	      processes in the job, each process will have a line showing its
	      command and possibly its status, if it is different from the
	      status of the previous process.

     When an attempt is made to exit the shell while there are jobs in the
     stopped state, the shell warns the user that there are stopped jobs and
     does not exit.  If another attempt is immediately made to exit the shell,
     the stopped jobs are sent a SIGHUP signal and the shell exits.
     Similarly, if the nohup option is not set and there are running jobs when
     an attempt is made to exit a login shell, the shell warns the user and
     does not exit.  If another attempt is immediately made to exit the shell,
     the running jobs are sent a SIGHUP signal and the shell exits.

